docs/src/intro.md, before:

# About cloud-scanner  📡

[Boavizta Cloud-scanner](https://github.com/Boavizta/cloud-scanner) returns environmental impacts of your AWS Instances (EC2) usage.

It combines real time _inventory_ and _usage_ data from your AWS account with [Boavizta API](https://github.com/Boavizta/boaviztapi/) to offer a  view of your impacts on a given region.

- multi criteria: Primary Energy consumption (PE), Abiotic resource depletion potential (ADP), and Global Warming Potential (GWP)
- multi stage: separate impacts of ressources Usage and Manufacture

Estimations can be filtered by tags. It eases attribution to a specific server, environment, application or service.

Cloud-scanner can be used:

- from command line, to get an immediate view of your impacts 💻
- as a metric server . You can use it to monitor and display real time impacts in a dashboard 📊

![A example dashboard rendering cloud scanner metrics](images/cloud-scanner-dashboard-clear.png "A example dashboard rendering cloud scanner metrics")

Cloud-scanner is an Open Source application maintained here: <https://github.com/Boavizta/cloud-scanner>.

## How it works

![System in context diagram of cloud scanner](images/cloud-scanner-system-in-context.png "System in context diagram of cloud scanner")

## ⚠ Alpha version

Cloud scanner is stable, but with limited functionality.

This is work in progress, and development versions (`dev` branch of the repository) may already implement new functionalities. So have a look at the [changelog](https://github.com/Boavizta/cloud-scanner/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) and [Issues · Boavizta/cloud-scanner](https://github.com/Boavizta/cloud-scanner/issues) on this repository.

Commit message:

docs: add mermaid diagram in Readme and in the docs.

docs/src/intro.md, after:

# About cloud-scanner  📡

[Boavizta Cloud-scanner](https://github.com/Boavizta/cloud-scanner) returns environmental impacts of your AWS Instances (EC2) usage.

```mermaid
  graph LR;
      inventory[ Account inventory] 
      api[Impacts from BoaviztaAPI]
      metrics[Prometheus metrics]
      json[JSON output]
      inventory --> api
      api --> metrics
      api --> json
```

It combines real time _inventory_ and _usage_ data from your AWS account with [Boavizta API](https://github.com/Boavizta/boaviztapi/) to offer a  view of your impacts on a given region.

- multi criteria: Primary Energy consumption (PE), Abiotic resource depletion potential (ADP), and Global Warming Potential (GWP)
- multi stage: separate impacts of ressources Usage and Manufacture

Estimations can be filtered by tags. It eases attribution to a specific server, environment, application or service.

Cloud-scanner can be used:

- from command line, to get an immediate view of your impacts 💻
- as a metric server . You can use it to monitor and display real time impacts in a dashboard 📊

![A example dashboard rendering cloud scanner metrics](images/cloud-scanner-dashboard-clear.png "A example dashboard rendering cloud scanner metrics")

Cloud-scanner is an Open Source application maintained here: <https://github.com/Boavizta/cloud-scanner>.

## How it works

![System in context diagram of cloud scanner](images/cloud-scanner-system-in-context.png "System in context diagram of cloud scanner")

Cloud scanner relies on cloud providers APIs to perform an inventory of your cloud resources.  It collects information about usage (instance types, tags, CPU load or volume size).

This inventory is used to query Boavizta API which returns impact data.

Results are exposed as JSON or metrics.

## ⚠ Alpha version

Cloud scanner is stable, but with limited functionality.

This is work in progress, and development versions (`dev` branch of the repository) may already implement new functionalities. So have a look at the [changelog](https://github.com/Boavizta/cloud-scanner/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) and [Issues · Boavizta/cloud-scanner](https://github.com/Boavizta/cloud-scanner/issues) on this repository.
