docs/src/SUMMARY.md, before:

[Introduction](intro.md)

# Tutorials 🚀

- [Quickstart - using CLI docker 🐳](tutorials/quickstart-docker.md)
- [Quickstart - dashboard using docker 🐳](tutorials/quickstart-dashboard-docker.md)
- [Quickstart - using cargo 🦀](tutorials/quickstart-rust-cli.md)
- [Quickstart as serverless ⚡](tutorials/quickstart-serverless.md)

# Explanations

- [Methodology](explanations/methodology.md)
- [How we process workload](explanations/processing-workload.md)

# How-to guides

- [Building CLI](how-to/building-cli.md)
- [Run as docker](how-to/docker-guide.md)
- [Deploy serverless](how-to/deploy-sls.md)
- [AWS authentication](how-to/passing-aws-credentials.md)
- [Setup monitoring dashboard](how-to/set-up-dashboard.md)
- [Filtering by tags](how-to/filter-by-tags.md)
- [Using a private instance of Boavizta API](how-to/using-private-boaviztapi.md)

# Reference

- [💡 Common issues and FAQ](reference/common-issues-and-FAQ.md)
- [CLI options](reference/cli-options.md)
- [Environment variables](reference/env-vars.md)
- [OpenAPI specification in server mode](reference/openapi-server-mode.md)
- [Output data](reference/output-data.md)
- [Serverless design](reference/serverless-design.md)
- [Limitations](reference/limits.md)
- [Unit tests](reference/testing.md)

Commit message:

docs: how to get impacts for an existing inventory file

docs/src/SUMMARY.md, after:

[Introduction](intro.md)

# Tutorials 🚀

- [Quickstart - using CLI docker 🐳](tutorials/quickstart-docker.md)
- [Quickstart - dashboard using docker 🐳](tutorials/quickstart-dashboard-docker.md)
- [Quickstart - using cargo 🦀](tutorials/quickstart-rust-cli.md)
- [Quickstart as serverless ⚡](tutorials/quickstart-serverless.md)

# Explanations

- [Methodology](explanations/methodology.md)
- [How we process workload](explanations/processing-workload.md)

# How-to guides

- [Estimate the impacts of an existing inventory](how-to/estimate-from-existing-inventory-file.md)
- [Simulate impacts of an inventory](how-to/simulate-impacts-of-an-inventory.md)
- [Building CLI](how-to/building-cli.md)
- [Run as docker](how-to/docker-guide.md)
- [Deploy serverless](how-to/deploy-sls.md)
- [AWS authentication](how-to/passing-aws-credentials.md)
- [Setup monitoring dashboard](how-to/set-up-dashboard.md)
- [Filtering by tags](how-to/filter-by-tags.md)
- [Using a private instance of Boavizta API](how-to/using-private-boaviztapi.md)

# Reference

- [💡 Common issues and FAQ](reference/common-issues-and-FAQ.md)
- [CLI options](reference/cli-options.md)
- [Environment variables](reference/env-vars.md)
- [OpenAPI specification in server mode](reference/openapi-server-mode.md)
- [Output data](reference/output-data.md)
- [Serverless design](reference/serverless-design.md)
- [Limitations](reference/limits.md)
- [Unit tests](reference/testing.md)
